Hello, Miami Dade College! It is so great to be here with all of you.

And I want to thank everyone for gathering and in particular, I want to thank all of the elected officials. Thanks to Congressman Patrick Murphy who I hope is the next senator from Florida. Thanks to Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Thank you to Mayor Phillip Levine of Miami Beach. Thanks to Mayor Phillip Stoddard of South Miami. Thanks to all the others who were part of the program. As we were coming in, we heard lots of energy coming from this crowd, and I was told as I was coming out, there’s an overflow, but they can hear us in the overflow, and we’re so happy you’re here as well! So thanks to the overflow crowd. But what I am most excited about is to be here with one of the world’s most foremost leaders on climate change: Al Gore.

About a decade ago, Al made a movie called ‘An Inconvenient Truth.’ Now, maybe some of you have seen it, but if you haven’t, I hope you’ll watch it tonight. It doesn’t have a lot of special effects – but it does have a lot of drama.

And here’s the main message: climate change is real, it’s urgent, and America can take the lead in the world in addressing it. Right? We here in America can develop new clean energy solutions. We can transform our economy. We can rally the world to cut carbon pollution. And above all, we can fulfill our moral obligation to protect our planet for our children and our grandchildren.

Now, let me just say – so, so let’s remember, let’s remember what’s at stake. I’m running against a guy who denies science, denies climate change, claims it’s a hoax created by the Chinese. So this is something that Al Gore’s been working on for a really long time. And I want you to know how far back he goes. It was in 1982 when he held the very first hearing on climate change in the House of Representatives with the world-famous climate scientist Jim Hansen. And then when Al became a senator, he continued to raise the alarm and look for solutions, and as vice president, he led America’s efforts to negotiate the Kyoto Protocol to cut greenhouse gas emissions. You take all this together, those 30 years of leadership led Al Gore to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.

I was very proud because he had been determined and persistent, and in the face of a lot of people – in public life, in business, in elsewhere who were trying to diminish the importance of the science – he never wavered. And in the years since, the climate challenge has only grown more stark. And I will tell you this, it is one of the most important issues at stake in this election.

Look at it this way. Our next president will either step up our efforts to address climate change, to protect our planet, to protect our health, and to create good jobs that cannot be outsourced by growing our clean energy economy. Or in the alternative, we will be dragged backwards and our whole future will be put at risk.

So we’ve really got to get this right. And if you need additional convincing, just remember what happened this week. Hurricane Matthew killed at least 26 people in our country, more than a thousand as far as we know right now in Haiti. North Carolina is still dealing with serious flooding and will be at least for the rest of the week, if not longer. We all need to support each other as our communities put the pieces back together and begin the long road back from this disaster.

That’s why I’ve encouraged everyone to give what you can afford to the Florida Disaster Fund or to Team Rubicon, the veterans organization working to respond to Hurricane Matthew, or to UNICEF, helping children and families on the ground in Haiti.

Now, some will say, ‘We’ve always had hurricanes. They’ve always been destructive.’ And that’s true. But Hurricane Matthew was likely more destructive because of climate change. Right now, the ocean is at or near record-high temperatures – and that contributed to the torrential rainfall and the flash flooding that we saw in the Carolinas. Sea levels have already risen about a foot – one foot – in much of the Southeast, which means that Matthew’s storm surge was higher and the flooding was more severe.

Plus, as you know, the impact of climate change goes beyond extreme events like hurricanes. It’s become a daily reality here in Miami. You have streets in Miami Beach and in Shorecrest that are flooding at high tide. The ocean is bubbling up through the sewer system. Sometimes, people call 311 because they assume a water main must have broken when actually it is the sea rising around them.

So, if you need proof that climate change is real and that it’s costly, there you go. So at this rate, at this rate, my friends, my friends, please. Let’s focus on what’s really important in this election and in your future and the future of our country, because this is what I want you to hear and understand. At the rate we are going, one in eight homes in Florida could be underwater by the end of the century, and when kids – like that adorable young boy over there on his dad’s shoulders – are grandparents, we believe that’s more than $400 billion worth of property in Florida at risk, and nationwide, it’s as much as $882 billion in property at risk.

But there’s also health consequences. Mosquitoes that carry diseases like the Zika virus and ticks that carry Lyme disease are expanding their ranges. And hotter summers and longer pollen seasons are making allergies and asthma worse, which is especially bad for our children. And look at what is happening in California, a brutal five-year drought. Wildfires have burned more than 9 million acres in our country last year.

And it’s also about national security. The Pentagon has identified climate change as a threat to our America’s national security. The U.S. Atlantic Fleet is based in Norfolk, Virginia. It’s the largest naval installation in the world. And because of rising sea level, the base is frequently flooded, even when it’s sunny. So that’s why the Pentagon is looking at how climate change will affect readiness and operations, not just in Norfolk, but at all of our military bases around the world.

So you would think if you look at the facts, if you listen to the science, that even the most committed climate skeptic would say, ‘Ok, I agree, something’s happening here. We need to take it seriously.’

But unfortunately, there are still plenty of people – in Washington, on the campaign trail – who won’t face what’s happening right in front of us.

Donald Drumpf, is, quote, ‘not a big believer’ in climate change. As I said, he said it’s a hoax created by the Chinese. And in our first debate two weeks ago, he tried to deny saying that. But that tweet is still there for everyone to see.

And I would wish that Donald would actually listen to people here in Florida, like Miami Beach’s Mayor Philip Levine and others who are doing incredible work to address these ‘Sunny Day’ Floods. Or maybe, he would listen to Miami Beach Commissioner John Elizabeth Alemán. Or maybe he would listen to Miami Beach Commissioner, John Elizabeth Alemán. John Elizabeth is a Republican, but she’s supporting our campaign—because she knows America can’t afford a candidate who doesn’t accept climate science. Or maybe Donald would listen to our military leaders who say climate change threatens our national security, or what about the ranchers in Colorado, or the mayors in Arizona or the community leaders in Alaska who say, ‘Our lives and jobs and families are being affected – please, let’s come together as a country and do something about it.’

We cannot risk putting a climate denier in the White House. At all, that is absolutely unacceptable.

We need a president who believes in science and who has a plan to lead America in facing this threat, creating good jobs, and yes, saving our planet.

So here’s what I want to do.

First, we need to do a lot more on clean energy. The clean energy superpower of the 21st century is probably going to be either Germany, China, or us—and I want it to be us. And I want you to be part of making it us.

And we need to accelerate the transition to a clean energy economy and create high paying jobs, building and installing more solar panels and wind turbines. Modernizing our electric grid. Retrofitting buildings. Building resilient, 21st century infrastructure, and we have to make sure no community is left out or left behind—not our cities or our small towns or our remote, rural areas.

Now, you wouldn’t know it if you only listened to my opponent talk about how terrible everything is. He has such a dark, divisive view of America, but that doesn’t tell the story about what’s really going on. It’s actually pretty exciting. In red states and blue states, local leaders are stepping up. Rural electric co-ops are investing in community solar power and you see that across America – union workers in Michigan, union workers in Michigan are getting ready to build electric Chevys in a plant powered by clean energy. Iowa, Iowa is already getting a third of its electricity from wind. Wind turbines are going up in New England and on Lake Erie. Renewable energy is already the fastest-growing source of new jobs in America. I think that is so exciting – there are nearly 2 million people already working in energy efficiency.

And in Spartanburg, South Carolina, a project called ReGenesis is taking an old landfill and turning it into a solar farm. That landfill was a blight and a health threat, just 250 feet away from a residential neighborhood. Now, that same land will generate enough clean, renewable electricity to power 500 homes.

So this is what we can do. And I think Washington should back up and support doing more of that. As president, I want us to have 500 million solar panels installed across America by the end of my first term. And let’s generate enough renewable energy to power every home in America within the decade. Let’s make our buildings and factories more energy efficient and cut our oil consumption by one-third.

And we can get there by investing in cutting edge research, to keep developing cheaper and better clean energy technologies, investing in clean energy infrastructure and advanced manufacturing, putting big partnerships together between states, cities, and rural communities.

We can do all of this and create millions of good-paying jobs as we do. So I’m hoping that these good jobs will offer security and dignity while we produce the clean energy that will power the economy of the future. The clean energy solutions are being developed right here in America. We want them manufactured in America, installed in America, and putting people to work in America.

And while we do that, let’s make sure our communities are ready for the impacts of climate change that are coming right at us. We need to invest in resilient infrastructure. Now, sometimes that will mean building a seawall; other times, let’s be more creative – like in New York Harbor, where we are replanting oyster beds to form natural barriers to storm surge. Sometimes we’ll overhaul an outdated sewer system to deal with flooding from heavy downpours. In Philadelphia, they’re trying something else: green roofs, porous pavements, curbside gardens to help absorb storm water.

And here’s something we don’t talk enough about. Let’s make sure our hospitals can stay open and operational in any kind of disaster. Because sadly, I saw what happened in New York during Hurricane Sandy, newborns who had been on respirators had to be evacuated down nine flights of stairs in one New York hospital, because the electricity went off. Nurses, I love nurses – heroic, courageous nurses were carrying those babies and manually squeezing bags of air to keep them breathing. Now, here in Miami, you know how important this is. You have retrofitted the Nicklaus Children’s Hospital with a hurricane-resistant shell for exactly this reason. And every hospital in the country should follow your lead and build in more resilience.

And then finally, we have got to lead the world to confront the climate challenge. If we don’t do it, nobody will do it. We must confront the climate challenge. There’s no doubt about that. And so, let’s move on with the kind of leadership that the world as well as our country deserves.

When I was Secretary of State, I worked with President Obama to make climate change a top diplomatic priority. We fought to get China and India and other major polluters to agree for the first time in history to be part of the solution. In fact, we had to crash a secret meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark – slip past the guards – it was all very cloak and dagger. But for a really important purpose, and because of that breakthrough, and a lot of patient, persistent work, and because of American leadership, 195 nations signed on to a global agreement last December. It’s called the Paris Agreement. And I am not exaggerating when I say it is our last, best chance to solve the global, climate crisis.

And what does Donald Drumpf want to do? He wants to cancel the Paris Agreement. He doesn’t care what it would do to the planet. He doesn’t care how much that would damage American leadership in the world. He doesn’t care what it would do to the future we leave our kids and our grandkids.

Well, he may not care – but we do. And that’s why this election is so critically important because on the ballot, it is not just my name. It’s every issue we care about it’s our values as a country.

Climate change needs to be a voting issue. We need to elect people up and down the ballot, at every level of government, who take it seriously and are willing to roll up their sleeves and get something done. Please, we cannot keep sending climate deniers and defeatists to Congress or to state houses—and certainly not to the White House.

And if you care about climate, your Senate race is also really important, and I’ll tell you why. It is unacceptable, it is an unacceptable response for Marco Rubio, when asked about climate change to say, ‘I’m not a scientist.’ Well, why doesn’t he ask a scientist and then maybe then he’d understand why it is so important that he, representing Florida, be committed to climate change? That’s why I hope that you’ll elect Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate.

Look, we need leaders who can get results. It’s easy to stonewall. It’s not enough to protest: we need creativity, we need hard work. And when it comes to climate change, we don’t have a minute to waste.

So, I know it’s easy to get cynical—especially about our politics. I get that. But this election matters more than any has in a really long time, and I believe that as strongly as I can, we’ve got to address this issue for our sakes, our children, our grandchildren. And it’s so critically important when you think about how leadership can make a difference.

And just look, if you will – look at the difference between your state, the Sunshine State, which has less solar energy than New Jersey has right now. And do you know why? Because you have a governor who has ordered the state government never to use the words ‘climate change.’ So my friends, this is a big deal in the election, and it is going to be a big deal for our country and our world. And there isn’t anybody – there isn’t anybody who knows more, has done more, has worked harder. I know he was in Miami just last year, training and educating people to be climate change activists. I can’t wait to have Al Gore advising me when I am President of the United States. So please join me in welcoming our former vice president, a climate change leader and an all-around great guy, Al Gore.
Hello, B-W-A. I thank you all for that warm welcome. There’s nowhere I’d rather be than right here with all of you this morning.

Please everyone be seated. This is such a great opportunity to lift up the work that so many of you have done for years — your organizations, individually — and I am grateful for it because it has helped to guide me in a lot of the work that I’ve been privileged to do.

I want to thank Gwen Hess for her introduction. I want to acknowledge, it’s always great to see a woman serve as president in any setting.

I want to congratulate today’s honorees. Everyone is so deserving of this recognition. I also want to acknowledge a few others. We have some fierce members of Congress with us today, women whom I admire, who have been my colleagues and friends and with whom I am looking forward to continuing our work: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett.

And I want to give a special shout out to Congresswoman Joyce Beatty. When I saw Joyce recently, she said, ‘Well, you are coming, aren’t you?’ And I said, ‘I’m working hard to get it set.’ And I am so proud that it did work out, and I thank Joyce for that extra push.

I also want to acknowledge someone who had such a profound effect on my life, in every way, someone whom I admire and love, Marian Wright Edelman. This audience is filled with longtime friends and people I went to Wellesley College with that became life-long friends to me, and so many of you who have been on the front lines — everyone associated with The Black Women’s Agenda, I’m thrilled to be with you. I’m thrilled to be associated with you. I’m also thrilled to be back on the campaign trail. As the world knows, I was a little under the weather recently. The good news is, my pneumonia finally got some Republicans interested in women’s health.

Looking back, I know, I should have followed my doctor’s orders to rest, but, my instinct was to push through it. That is what women do every single day, and I felt no different. Life has shown us that we do have to work harder at the office while still bearing most of the responsibilities at home — that we always need to keep going because our families and our communities count on us. And I think it is more than fair to say, that black women have an even tougher road.

And you, your daughters, your granddaughters — I was pleased to meet Gwen’s beautiful granddaughter earlier — leave the house every morning, put on that game face that we all practice, and enter a society that consistently challenges your worth. With the images you see, the lower pay that so many take home, that try to silence your voices and break your spirits; yet, you remain fierce in the face of these challenges. We see that every day in the businesses you start, the art you create, the children you teach and the communities and organizations you lead. While your stories are often missing from the history books — make no mistake — you are the change makers, the path breakers, and the ground shakers. And, you are proof that yes, indeed, black girl magic is real.

Now, I’ve been blessed to see this magic’s influence on kids and communities up close for decades, starting with my first job after law school working with Marian at the Children’s Defense Fund. Marian’s belief was that every single child had worth and potential and deserved the opportunity to live up to their god potential with the tools and the support that every child needs. And that if we just improve the odds a bit for those suffering in poverty, they could flourish. So she led our team into some very poor communities. We met kids who had dropped out of school because they couldn’t afford textbooks or transportation. Some didn’t have decent clothes and stayed home to avoid being humiliated in class. Some had untreated medical and dental problems that made it practically impossible for them to learn. Those stories really hurt my heart.

But Marian always believed we could deliver help and hope if we never ever gave up. So she taught us ways to think creatively, as well as strategically– to take our advocacy and turn it into action and results. She sent me to New Bedford, Massachusetts, to go door to door looking for children who weren’t in school. That was back before we had a legal requirement that every child, regardless of disability, deserved to get an education. I met a young girl in New Bedford and sat and talked with her on the small back porch of her house. She told me how badly she wanted to learn, but couldn’t because schools weren’t accessible or welcoming. So Marian had us get to work and change that.

We gathered evidence and built a coalition. We helped convince Congress to ensure access to education for all students with disabilities. Marian showed me that to drive real progress, you have to change both hearts and laws. You need both understanding and action. And there is no question, I’m here today because of her example. I also want to recognize pioneers like Barbara Jordan and Shirley Chisholm, who sacrificed and struggled so that I and so many other women running for office could soar. I’m here because of friends and colleagues, like Donna Brazile, Reverend Leah Daugherty and Congresswoman Marcia Fudge — three black women who ran the Democratic National Convention in July. It was a great four days.

It goes to show that black women deserve more than a seat at the table. It’s past time you had a fair chance to run the meeting. And let’s be clear: I would not be the Democratic nominee for President of the United States were it not for black women like all of you who made noise at the polls this year in support of our campaign — who did surrogate events, went to barber shops and beauty salons and cafes, got on local radio and local TV to make the case. We’ve come far together.

And as I said yesterday in North Carolina, I’m going to close my campaign the way I began my career all those years ago at the Children’s Defense Fund, and the way that I will serve as your president should I have the great honor of being elected: I will be focused on opportunities for kids and fairness for families. The American people deserve something to vote for, not just against.

And together — together, we are going to make this a freer, fairer and stronger nation.

We’re going to fight for the parents struggling to balance family and work and push for affordable child care, paid family leave, and yes, finally, equal pay for women.

We’ll fight for the young girls who want a fair chance in life, which is why we’ll make universal pre-k available so that every child — no matter what they look like or where they live — can rise up and be prepared to fulfill their academic destiny.

We are also going to do a lot to emphasize STEM education, particularly for girls and women, and I thank the agenda for making that a priority!

We’ll fight for the entrepreneur who said that more businesses die in the parking lots of banks than anywhere else, which is why we’re going to increase access to capital, and we are going to help African American women continue to represent the fastest growing segment of women-owned businesses in America right now.

We are going to invest in communities that have been left out and left behind. Urban reinvestment and restructuring that is going to give more people decent housing, access to jobs, the transportation to get to those jobs, rural communities that are too often ignored and denied the services they need. I am a fan of Jim Clyburn’s ‘10-20-30’ plan. I am going to do everything I can to push that forward.

We’ll remember the pain of the Mothers of the Movement and fight for a criminal justice system that actually delivers justice and a future where everyone has respect for the law and is respected by the law. And we are going to pass common-sense reforms to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people and keep our communities safe.

We’ll remember the families neglected in Flint and take action so that no child’s life is ever put at risk again when brushing their teeth or drinking a glass of water at dinner. We’ll advocate for everyone concerned about their parents and grandparents as they age, and lift up caregivers and home care workers so older Americans can live in comfort and with dignity.

And we’re going to protect and enhance Social Security, which is the main source of income for older women. We’ll stand-by-side to make sure that all of our rights are respected and protected – civil rights and women’s rights, LGBT rights, worker’s rights and, of course, voting rights.

We are coming together at a pivotal moment for our country. Now I do believe that every election is important. But this one feels different, doesn’t it? That’s because it is. The next 53 days will shape the next 50 years. The future of our children and grandchildren hangs in the balance.

On one hand, we have my opponent, Donald Drumpf, and in recent weeks, he’s tried to restrain himself and clean up his image. But as Maya Angelou once said, ‘When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.’ And we know who Donald is. For five years, he has led the birther movement to de-legitimize our first black president. His campaign was founded on this outrageous lie. There is no erasing it in history.

Just yesterday, Drumpf again refused to say with his own words that the president was born in the United States. Donald’s advisors had the temerity to say, ‘He’s doing the country a ‘service’ by pushing these lies.’ No, he isn’t. He’s feeding into the worst impulses — the bigotry and bias — that lurks in our country.

Barack Obama was born in America, plain and simple. And Donald Drumpf owes him and the American people an apology. So, my friends, there is no ‘new’ Donald Drumpf. There never will be. Donald Drumpf looks at President Obama after eight years as our president. He still doesn’t see him as an American.

Think of how dangerous that is. Imagine a person in the Oval Office who traffics in conspiracy theories and refuses to let them go – no matter what the facts are. Imagine someone who distorts the truth to fit a very narrow view of the world. Imagine a president who sees someone who doesn’t look like him, and doesn’t agree with him, and thinks, ‘That person must not be a real American.’

Donald Drumpf is unfit to be President of the United States. We cannot become insensitive to what he says and what he stirs up. We can’t just accept this.We’ve got to stand up to it. If we don’t, it won’t stop.

In addition to the president, Donald Drumpf looks at a distinguished federal judge, born in Indiana, and he sees a Mexican, not an American. He looks at a Gold Star family and sees them as Muslims, not patriotic Americans. He looks at women and decides how our looks rate on a scale of one to 10. I look at America, I see everyone. I see our great diversity, which is one of our core strengths, not our burden. We know who Donald Drumpf is. Now it’s time for our country to show who we are and reject his divisive vision.

That’s why this election is so important. As Michelle Obama said at the Democratic Convention, ‘When we go to the polls this November, the real choice isn’t between a Democrat or Republican.’ It’s about who will have the power to shape our children’s lives for the next four years. It’s also about the kind of country we want to be, and what we want to leave behind for future generations.

We are at our best when every person gets to share in our nation’s promise, contribute to its progress. ‘Stronger Together’ is not just our campaign slogan. It’s the guiding principle for the future we need to build. So Americans, we need to ask themselves: Are we going to make our economy work for everyone or just for those at the top? Are we going to bring people together or pit Americans against each other and rip our country apart? Are we going to work with our allies to keep us safe or are we going to put a loose cannon in charge who would risk everything that generations of Americans have worked so hard to build?

Now in many ways, the profound choice is up to the women in this room. African American women turned out to vote more than any other group of Americans in 2012. This year, once again, you have your hands on the wheel of history and you can write the next chapter of the American story.

Keep up the great work with your Four for 4’ campaign. Make sure we get as many people registered and then to the polls as we possibly can. People say to me all time, ‘I just — I don’t know what to do about Drumpf and his supporters and the things he says and inciting violence and all of the terrible activities that are happening this election year.’

Well, here’s what we can do. Let’s reject the cynicism, the bullying, the divisive rhetoric that my opponent uses to make us afraid of each other, afraid of our differences, afraid of our future. I know that all of us in this room are ready to stand up against this … to rise up for our families, our communities, but most importantly, to show up at the polls this November.

With our power and strength, I know — I believe this, or I would not be standing here before you, I would not have run again for president, I would not deal with all the incoming brickbats that are hurled my way if I did not in my heart believe with every fiber of my being that together we can build a future where, yes, love trumps hate.

Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you, It’s great to be back in Raleigh! Thank you so much. I have to confess I was having such a good time backstage listening to the 120 Minutes Band, listening to Mary Wingate do the national anthem and just being absolutely transported by Shay Taylor and Friends, the gospel group that got us all going today. And I cannot thank a better twosome than the people you just saw up here.

Because I honestly believe Jim Hunt is not only one of the best governors North Carolina has ever had, but one of the best governors ever in America in the last years. And what he did to really put North Carolina on a path to the future has stood the test of time. We’ve had a few glitches with others who don’t seem to understand what the ingredients are for building an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. But Jim Hunt knows that.

I look forward to continuing to work with him. And I was so delighted to have a chance, as I did, to have Alicia Wilkerson talk about her journey, how hard she has worked, raising her children, getting an education, making it possible for her to have a better future.

I so greatly appreciate her mentioning the SCHIP program which has helped 8 million kids every year get health insurance. Now because we are in North Carolina and we have a lot of friends here I want to acknowledge some of them. Your Secretary of State Elaine Marshall.

Senator Dan Blue, the Minority Leader of the North Carolina Senate. Representative Larry Hall, the Democratic leader of the North Carolina House of Representatives. Linda Coleman running for Lieutenant Governor. Judge Mike Morgan running against a Republican Supreme Court incumbent. And don’t forget than Dan Blue III is running for State Treasurer. Josh Stein, running for Attorney General. And let’s give a big round of applause to your next governor, Attorney General Roy Cooper! Your next AG commissioner Walter Smith and your next United States Senator, Debra Ross. We’re going to work hard in the this election to elect as many Democrats up and down the ticket so that North Carolina can get back on the path to the path to the future, get off this detour that you’ve been on.

I have to start by saying if you notice anything different about me today, it could be that now I have double the “grandmother glow.” This past weekend, Chelsea and Marc had a little boy and we’re all totally over the moon about it.

Obviously, our family will do everything we can to make sure little Charlotte and now little Aidan grow up with every possible opportunity. I know that’s what every parent and grandparent, aunt or uncle, godmother and godfather, people who care about the children in our lives, that’s exactly how we all feel.

I believe with all my heart that you should not have to be the grandchild of a former president or secretary of state to have every opportunity available to you in this country.

Every single child deserves the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential and that has been the cause of my life.

It’s rooted in the values I learned from my family and my faith. We’re all in this together. And we have a responsibility to lift each other up.

As we Methodists say: Do all the good you can to all the people you can in all the ways you can. And that is absolutely true for our children.

That’s why I got into public service in the first place. And it’s why I’m determined that we will win this election.

I think it’s an understatement to say that Americans face a choice in November.

As I said yesterday in Ohio, Donald Drumpf offers no real solutions for the economic challenges we face—he just continues to spout reckless ideas that will run up our debt and cause another economic crash.

I’m here today to offer an alternative. I have a clear vision for the economy, and it’s this: We need to make sure our economy works for everyone, not just those at the top.

Not just for the rich or the well-connected, not just for people living in some parts of the country, or people from certain backgrounds and not others—I mean everyone.

I have a plan to get us there: Five steps we can take together to drive growth that’s strong, fair, and lasting. Growth that reduces inequality, increases upward mobility; that reaches into every corner of our country.

The measure of our success will be how much incomes rise for hardworking families. How many children are lifted out of poverty. How many Americans can find good jobs that support a middle class life and not only that, jobs that provide a sense of dignity and pride. That’s what it means to have an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. That’s the mission, and I’m asking all of you to join me in it.

We have to overcome some big challenges. I will admit that.

First, too many of our representatives in Washington are in the grips of a failed economic theory called trickle-down economics. I do not question their sincerity, but it has been proven wrong again and again.

But there are still people in Congress who insist on cutting taxes for the wealthy instead of investing in our future.

They careen from one self-inflicted crisis to another—shutting down the government, threatening to default on our national debt, refusing to make the commonsense investments that used to have broad bipartisan support, like rebuilding our roads and our bridges, our tunnels, our highways and airports, or investing in better education from zero through high school and college.

I like to look at evidence: I plead to that. I think evidence is important when making decisions that affect other people’s lives. If the evidence were there to support this ideology, I would have to acknowledge that, but we have seen the results. Twice now in the past 30 years a Republican president has caused an economic mess and a Democratic president has had to come in and clean it up.

And yes, too many special interests and too many lobbyists have stood in the way of progress while protecting the perks of the privileged few.

It’s not just Washington.

Too many corporations have embraced policies that favor hedge funds and other big shareholders and top management at the expense of their workers, communities, and even their long-term value.

They’re driven by Wall Street’s obsession with short-term share prices and quarterly earnings.

A recent survey of corporate executives found that more than half when asked would hold off on making a successful long-term investment—maybe in their workers, or plant equipment, or research—if it meant missing a target in the next earnings report.

So corporations stash cash overseas or they send it to top shareholders in the form of stock buybacks or dividends, instead of raising wages or investing in research and development.

This pressure, this short-term pressure, leads to perverse incentives and outrageous behavior.

It is wrong to take taxpayer dollars with one hand and give out pink slips with the other hand. And no company should be moving their headquarters overseas, just to avoid paying their taxes here at home.

In addition, there have been big changes in how American families live, learn, and work, but our policies haven’t kept up.

There are so many examples of this.

Over the past several decades, women have entered the workforce and boosted our economy, yet we are the only, the only developed country that doesn’t provide paid family leave of any kind.

We’re asking families to rely on an old system of supports in a new economic reality. No wonder so many are struggling.

The bottom line is that too many leaders in business and government have lost sight of our shared responsibility to each other and to our nation.

They let Wall Street take big risks with unregulated financial activities, they skew our tax code toward the wealthy, they failed to enforce our trade rules, they undermined workers’ rights.

They have forgotten that we are all in this together and we are at our best when we recognize that. Excessive inequality such as we have today reduces economic growth. Markets work best when all the stakeholders share in the benefits.

The challenges we face are significant.

It is not easy to change Washington, or how corporations behave. It takes more than stern words or a flashy slogan—it takes a plan.

It takes experience and the ability to work with both parties to get results.

That means we need a president who knows what we’re up against, has no illusions about what we need to do to move ahead, but can actually get it done. And that is what I am offering.

Because there is good news. The good news is that everywhere I go, smart, determined men and women are working hard to reverse these trends.

Mayors are pioneering innovative ways to work with the private sector to invest in their cities.

Entrepreneurs and small businesses are building and hiring in places that bigger companies have abandoned.

Unions are providing training programs that add value to the companies that employ their members.

Union pension funds are already investing in infrastructure projects that have supported more than 100,000 jobs here in our country.

So do not grow weary, there are great ideas out there. And we are going to be partners in a big, bold effort to increase economic growth and distribute it more fairly.

To build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. I believe the federal government should adopt five ambitious goals:

First, let’s break through the dysfunction in Washington to make the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since World War II.

Second, let’s make college debt-free for all. And transform the way we prepare Americans for the jobs of the future.

Third, let’s rewrite the rules so more companies share profits with their employees, and fewer ship profits and jobs overseas.

Finally, let’s make sure that Wall Street, corporations, and the super-rich pay their fair share of taxes. And all of this depends upon putting our families first and matching our policies to how you actually live and work in the 21st century.

Briefly about these four points: Let’s start with jobs.

Every American willing to work hard should be able to find a job that pays enough to support a family. And I know we can do this because I’ve seen it in the past.

You know, I remember when I was growing up and America had come out from the upheaval of depression and world war. Our leaders worked together to invest in a new foundation for American power and prosperity.

Highways to connect up our entire nation. College and housing for returning veterans and their families. Unprecedented scientific research. And it worked—we built the greatest middle class the world has ever known.

Now, we have to get as ambitious again. There is nothing we can’t do. Let’s be just as ambitious to build our 21st century American economy to produce the same results for hard working Americans.

In my first 100 days as president, I will work with both parties to pass a comprehensive plan to create the next generation of good jobs. Now the heart of my plan will be the biggest investment in American infrastructure in decades, including establishing an infrastructure bank that will bring private sector dollars off the sidelines and put them to work here.

And I’ve talked with local leaders around America and I’ve seen the dire need for investment. In Tampa, for example, I saw how a smart, targeted highway investment near a major port can create thousands of good-paying jobs, support the local economy and unlock national commerce.

We can create millions of good-paying jobs while preparing America to compete and win in the global economy.

So let’s set these big national goals. And I know how important it is to rebuild our roads, our bridges and our airports, but we have more work to do. Let’s build better. And let’s connect every household to broadband by the year 2020.

Let’s build a cleaner, more resilient power grid with enough renewable energy to power every home in the country. Let’s fix failing water systems like the one that poisoned children in Flint, Michigan. Let’s renovate our public schools so every child in every community has access to safe, high-tech classrooms, laboratories, and libraries.

Our 100 Days jobs package will also include transformational investments in key drivers of growth:

Advance manufacturing, so we can “make it in America” and compete and win in the global economy.

Making America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century, which will create millions of jobs and help protect our planet.

Recommitting to scientific research, which can create new whole industries, just like we did in the ’90s, when we started mapping the human genome.

And small businesses, which should be the engine for creating new jobs across America, they need to be free of red tape and they need to have access to credit. We need to slash unnecessary regulations making it easier to get startup capital from community banks and credit unions. If you have an idea for a small business, we want you to get started.

Let’s free entrepreneurs to do what they do best—innovate and grow and hire and make sure that the new service and caregiving jobs being created today are jobs that pay well, too. And that does mean raising the national minimum wage.

So many of these are so personal to us that they need to be respected and lifted up. And I know too that we’ve got work to do to stand with those who are fighting for raising the minimum wage. It’s not always how we think about this, but I can tell you another engine for growth and job creation would be comprehensive immigration reform.

It will bring millions of workers into the formal economy so you don’t have an unlevel playing field, so that workers who are competing for those jobs don’t get undercut because employers go out and find undocumented workers to do those jobs for a lower wage. I really believe it’s not just the right thing to do, but it will be great.

It will be smart for our economy. I want people to be able to compete. I don’t want to have that disadvantage that exists in too many places, where people are being are being priced out of the jobs they’ve always done.

So we can work toward a full employment and full potential economy. That does mean we can’t ignore people that are still stuck on the sidelines, or working part-time when what they really want is a full-time job. Or those trapped in long-term joblessness, whether they’re veterans, workers with disabilities, people coming home from prison, or young people who tried to start their careers in the midst of the Great Recession. I particularly want young people to feel that they are going to get good jobs that will give them that ladder of opportunity that they deserve to have in America.

That’s why I want to expand incentives like the New Markets Tax Credit, Empowerment Zones, and other ideas that bring business, government, and communities together to create good jobs in poor or remote areas. Places that have lost a factory or a mine where generations of families used to work. Anyone willing to work should get the help they need to qualify for and find that good job.

That means breaking down the barriers of systemic racism and discrimination that hold back —those barriers, they hold back African Americans, Latinos, Asian and Native Americans, and women from fully participating in our economy.

We need to reverse the long-term neglect that has dried up jobs and opportunity in communities of color, in poor communities. It’s not by accident that the unemployment rate now among black Americans is twice as high as among whites. Back in the ’90s, we were closing that gap, incomes were going up for everybody.

I think we’re going to have to invest money to create jobs for young people because right now I’m worried that if young people don’t get that first job when they are young, learn about work, understand the obligations as well as the promise of work, it will be even more difficult to get them into the workforce later on.

It is way past time for us to guarantee equal pay for women, which is still not the reality.

So, you see it is not enough to have an affirmative agenda, we have to knock down those barriers.

And by the way, as you’ve seen here in North Carolina discriminating against LGBT Americans is bad for business.

And make no mistake, we will defend American jobs and American workers by saying “no” to bad trade deals and unfair trade practices, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which does not meet my high bar for creating good-paying jobs. “No” to assaults on the right to organize and bargain collectively.

“No” to every attack on the dignity of working families.

We’re going to make this economy work for everyone, and it’s time we start building this from the ground up. For every home and every community all the way to Washington. Now, I know very well that if you don’t have the skills for the jobs of tomorrow, it’s going to be difficult. Education is still the pathway for greater opportunities for many Americans.

Let’s start at the beginning with making quality, affordable child care and preschool available in every community in the next 10 years, so we get our littlest Americans off to the best start.

Jim Hunt was a pioneer in this. Why did he care so much about children zero to five, besides the fact that he cared about them? Because he knew there was a direct line to how the youngest children were treated, educated, and prepared for school, and what kind of jobs and economic competitiveness North Carolina would have. So we’re going to start by having families be their child’s first teachers, and we’re going to give them the support they need to do that. And when it comes to primary and secondary education I pledged to you we’re going to make sure all our kids have good teachers and good schools, no matter what ZIP code you live in.

You know, for many years, thanks to people and leaders like Jim Hunt, North Carolina was a leading state when it came to education. Now, unfortunately, thanks to your Governor McCrory and the legislature, the average teacher salary can barely support a family. It should not be a surprise that thousands have quit in recent years.

We should support our teachers, not scapegoat them.

And then let’s make sure every student has options after high school. Whether it’s a four-year degree, free community college, an apprenticeship, or other forms of higher education, we need to provide the skills and credentials that match the job openings of today and tomorrow.

That’s why I’m proposing new tax credits to encourage more companies to offer paid apprenticeships that lets you earn while you learn. And I will to support the union apprenticeships and training programs already out there. Not every good job requires a four-year college degree. We need to dignify skills training. So many young people have the talent and the will to succeed—they just need a helping hand.

That’s why I want us to come together to help our young people break free from the burden of student debt. I’m sure we all have stories. I’ve met so many who told me they can’t start a business. They can’t even move out of their parent’s basement because of all the student debt holding them back.

Let’s set the goal to make debt-free college available to everyone. So future students won’t have to borrow a dime to pay for tuition at public college or university.

And let’s liberate the millions of Americans who already have student debt by making it easier to refinance, just like a mortgage. Let’s make it easier to have debt forgiven by doing national service, let’s make it easier to repay what you owe as a portion of your income so you never have to pay more than you can afford.

I’ve set out a way to do this, and we’ll be talking more about it as we go forward in this campaign.

My third goal is to rewrite the rules so more companies share profits with employees, and fewer ship profits and jobs overseas.

I know there are a lot of businesses thriving here in North Carolina and across our country who see employees as assets to invest in, not costs to cut. They’re building companies, not stripping them. They’re creating good jobs, not eliminating them.

But too many, too many businesses take the opposite view. I’m not asking corporations to be more charitable, although I think that is important. I’m asking corporations to realize that when more Americans prosper, they prosper too, right? When your paycheck grows, America grows.

We are a 70 percent consumption economy. If we want higher growth, we have to raise incomes. So people have more disposable dollars to be able to spend, instead of holding back out of fear of what will happen.

So let’s bring a long-term view back to board rooms and executive suites. Let’s restore the link between productivity growth and wage growth.

As president, I will make it a national priority for more companies to share profits with employees. On top of, not instead of, good wages. Let’s recognize the people doing the work, putting in the hours, they’re the ones who should be sharing the rewards.

We should continue to crack down on wage theft and make overtime count, so companies that pay well can’t be undercut by competitors paying poverty wages.

I believe we should strengthen unions, which have formed the bedrock of a strong middle class. It should be easier to bargain collectively. That’s not only fair, it makes workers more productive, it strengthens our economy.

And let’s close the loopholes that help companies ship jobs and profits overseas. Let’s make companies that outsource jobs to other countries pay back the tax breaks they received while they were here in America. And if corporations try to move their headquarters to a foreign country to skip out on their tax bills—let’s slap a new exit tax on them and then put that money to work in the communities left behind.

And we should extend the rules that were passed in Dodd-Frank on Wall Street after the crisis and strengthen them—both for the big banks and the shadow banking system. And I will veto any reforms to repeal those rules and vigorously enforce the law, with accountability, so Wall Street can never wreck Main Street again.

Fourth, let’s make sure Wall Street, corporations, and the super-rich pay their fair share of taxes.

When people say the game is rigged, the best evidence is the tax code. It’s riddled with scams, loopholes, and special breaks, like the carried-interest loophole that lets some hedge fund managers pay a lower tax rate than a teacher or a nurse. That’s not only unfair, it’s bad economics, and we’re going to stop it.

I have been saying that for years. As president, if Congress won’t act, I will ask the Treasury Department to use its authority to close that loophole.

And here’s another idea that I will be pushing: Let’s pass the so-called Buffett Rule so top executives can’t pay a lower rate than their secretaries.

And let’s ask the wealthiest Americans to pay more—including a new tax on multimillionaires. That’s not only the right thing to do, it’s smart for our economy.

Because these steps will help pay for the investments we need in jobs and education without increasing our national debt. In fact, every program I have proposed in this campaign, I tell you how I will pay for it. Donald Drumpf and I disagree on a lot of things, and one of them is simple math.

Finally, here’s our fifth goal: Let’s put families first and make sure our policies match how you actually work and live in the 21st century.

Families look a lot different today than they did 30 years ago, and so do our jobs.

The movement of women into the workforce has produced enormous economic growth over the past few decades. But with women now the sole or primary breadwinner in a growing number of families—there’s more urgency than ever to make it easier for Americans to be good workers, good parents, and good caregivers, all at the same time.

The old model of work where you could expect to hold a steady job with good benefits for an entire career, is long gone. People in their 20s and 30s have come of age in an economy that’s totally different. And a lot of young parents are discovering just how tough that is on families. Many people now have wildly unpredictable schedules, or they cobble together part-time work, or they’ve tried to go independent.

Flexibility can be good, but you shouldn’t have to worry that your family could lose your health care or retirement savings just because you change jobs or start a small business.

Why do you think every other—I have to ask—why do you think every other advanced country has paid family leave? Do you think they are just unrealistic, or do you think that they have figured out they can have a stabler economy, they can support families? And that’s what I want us to do. Working families need predictable scheduling, earned sick days and vacation days, quality affordable childcare and healthcare. These are not luxuries. They’re economic necessities.

In today’s economy, benefits should be flexible, portable, and comprehensive for everyone.

That means it’s time to expand Social Security as well. Especially, especially for older women who are widowed, or have taken time out of the workforce to care for a loved one, and who are suffering financially because of that. We need to look to a secure retirement for everyone, and to provide families relief from crushing costs and health care, housing, and prescription drugs. I looked at the numbers and in some states, two parents earning the minimum wage have to spend up to 35 percent of their income on child care.

For a single parent, it could be 70 percent. So I will set a goal: Families shouldn’t have to pay more than 10 percent of their income for child care. And I will repeat today what I have said throughout this campaign: I will not raise taxes on the middle class I will give you tax relief to raise these burdens.

Now, you know whenever I talk about these family issues, Donald Drumpf says I’m playing the “woman” card. Right? Well you know what I say, if fighting for child care and paid leave and equal pay is playing the woman card, then deal me in.

Here’s what I want you to understand. It may be difficult to imagine all this getting done and Washington is so broken, I get that—but I really think that progress is possible or I would not be standing up here running to be president of the United States.

I know Republicans and Democrats can work together, because I’ve done it. As you heard Alicia say, I helped create the Children’s Health Insurance Program when I was first lady. That happened with support with both parties. And it now it covers 8 million kids and when you go to get health care for your child, nobody says, “Are you a Republican or Democrat?” They say, “What does your child need?”

I worked with Republicans many times when I was a senator from New York and as secretary of state, so I know we can get results that will make real differences in people’s lives.

I know however it’s rare. There’s no question that we need to make Washington work much better than it does today. And that means in particular: getting unaccountable money out of our politics.

One of the reasons this election is so important is because the Supreme Court stands in the balance. We need to overturn that terrible Supreme Court decision, Citizens United, and then go a lot further to reform our whole campaign finance system.

This is about our democracy—but it’s also about our economy. Campaign finance reform and reducing the power of special interests is directly relevant to getting Washington working for the people again—making the right investments, putting your jobs and your economic security first.

That’s why I’m so passionate about this issue, and I’m will fight hard to end the stranglehold that the wealthy and special interests have on so much of our government.

So, let’s do this together. A historic investment in jobs. Debt-free college. Profit sharing. Making those at the top pay their fair share. Putting families first in our modern economy. And a democracy where working people’s voices are actually heard. That is what we are fighting for in this election.

As I said during the primary I am a progressive who likes to get things done and we can do this.

Just for a minute, compare what I am proposing to what we hear from Donald Drumpf. The self-proclaimed “King of Debt” has no real ideas for making college more affordable or addressing the student debt crisis. He has no credible plan for rebuilding our infrastructure, apart from his wall. He has no real strategy for creating jobs, just a string of empty promises. Maybe we shouldn’t expect better from someone whose most famous words are, “You’re fired.”

Well, here’s what I want you to know: I do have a jobs program. And as president, I’m going to make sure you hear, “You’re hired.”

Here’s the bottom line: Economists left, right, and center all agree Donald Drumpf will drive America back into recession. Just this week, one of Senator John McCain’s former economic advisors said Drumpf’s policies would wipe out, wipe out three-and-a-half million jobs. His tax cuts tilted toward the wealthy would add more than $30 trillion to our national debt over the next 20 years.

That is just astonishing and it’s no wonder that the Economist Intelligence Unit, one of the leading firms that analyzes the top threats to the global economy, now ranks a Drumpf presidency No. 3, right behind problems in China and volatility in the commodities markets.

Look, I know Donald Drumpf hates it when anyone points out how hollow his sales pitch really is. I guess my speech yesterday must have gotten under his skin because right away he lashed out on Twitter with outlandish lies and conspiracy theories, and he did the same in his speech today.

Now think about it. He’s going after me personally because he has no answers on the substance. In fact, he doubled down on being the King of Debt.

So all he can do is try to distract us. That’s even why he’s attacking my faith, sigh. And of course attacking a philanthropic foundation that saves and improves lives around the world.

It’s no surprise he doesn’t understand these things. The Clinton Foundation helps poor people around the world get access to life-saving AIDS medicine.

Donald Drumpf uses poor people around the world to produce his line of suits and ties. Here in North Carolina, you know as well as anyone that our economy is already too unpredictable for working families. We can’t let Donald Drumpf bankrupt America the way he bankrupted his casinos. We need to write a new chapter in the American Dream—and it can’t be Chapter 11.

Please, join me in this campaign, I’m offering a very different vision. We’re stronger together. We’re stronger when we grow together. We’re stronger when our economy works for everyone, not just those at the top. I am convinced that if we work hard if we go into November with the confidence and optimism that should be the American birthright, we will not only win an election, we will chart the course to the future that we want and deserve.

Thank you and God bless you.